>> Kent C Dodds: Let's go ahead and
I'll demo how to write a unit test here.
And then I'll set you free on this
userToJSON and we'll take a break.
Sound good?
Great.
>> Kent C Dodds: So
when you're running unit tests or
when you're running tests at all,
you wanna take a step back and
think of this as whatever
it is that you're testing,
think of it from the perception
of a user of that software.
So, like in this case,
an end user isn't going to be using
the isPasswordAllowed function explicitly,
though.
That's more like an end-to-end
test type of experience.
But a user of this software would be
some other software that's using this,
like in the password validation phase
of user registration or something.
And so as a developer who will be
using this software, I want to be
able to call this password field with
the password that the user gave me and
check whether or
not that password is allowed.
So in this example, it's a pretty simple,
straightforward function.
But that's a really important
principle of testing in general,
is that the more that your tests resemble
the way that your software is used,
the more confidence those
tests can give you.
And so in anything that you're testing,
take a step back and think,
how would the user of
this software use this?
And that's how you should test it.
And then,
how would the user of this software verify
that this software is working properly?
So in our case, it's pretty simple,
especially with unit tests of
pure functions like these.
It's normally quite easy
to write these tests.
So we're using ES modules in here.
So we can import isPasswordAllowed from,
we're one directory down, so
we're gonna go two directories up.
And you go ahead and
type that out too if you want to.
You'll be importing the userToJSON,
so you'll want to have that in yours.
So, how do we verify that this
thing is working properly?
Well, we can call isPasswordAllowed
with just a string of nothing.
And I would expect that to be false,
so that password shouldn't be allowed.
What other situations?
Well, what if we just have, let's do
just f, and that should also be false.
We could also just do numbers, that's long
enough, but that should also be false.
And then we'll do something that
is a good and valid password.
So we'll do whatever, some stuff,
and that should be true, okay?
So I'll save that and
because we're in launch mode,
our test will automatically rerun and
everything's passing.
Now, this is a very important step that
you should not skip when you're writing
tests, so listen up.
It very well could be that your test,
your assertions are not running at all.
Especially when we get
to asynchronous test,
a test that rely on things
happening asynchronously.
It's pretty common to wind
up in a situation where your
assertions are never running.
So a way to simulate that is
like if (true) .
So now my assertion is not running.
But there's no indication in my output
that those assertions are not running
properly.
So there are a couple things you could do.
There is actually in the,
where'd the jest expect,
you can have assertions.
>> Kent C Dodds: And
you can specify how many
assertions should run.
I really don't like doing that.
Cuz it's really annoying to have to
increment that number every time I add
more assertions.
But we could do it that way,
we could say, okay,
let's put that thing back at the very top.
We'll say we should have four assertions.
And then it'll say, hey,
your assertions didn't run.
So that's one way you
could accomplish this.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
It just annoys me when I
add another assertion,
I have to increment that number.
So what I like to do when I'm running the
test is I like to negate my assertions.
Or, actually, even better than
that is to break the code.
But here,
we'll first negate the assertion.
Okay, great, so
the assertion is at least running.
It can fail, it's possible for
this thing to fail, and so that's good.
But like I said,
what you can do even one better
is break the source
code that it's testing.
The reason why breaking the source code
it's testing is better is because then you
not only make sure that your
assertion is running, but
you also make sure that your test is
running the code you think it is and
that it's actually testing what
you think it should be testing.
So this is actually one of the reasons
why TDD is so nice is because
test-driven development, is because,
if you write the test first and
then you write the source code to make
it pass, before you've even written
the source code, if that test fails, then
you know you're testing the right thing.
If you write the source code first and
then write the test afterward,
then you can't verify that your
changes have actually fixed the bug
that you're intending to fix.
So you wanna reveal the bug first.
And we'll talk about that more and
have an exercise for that later.
Okay, so
we verified that our test can fail and
that it's testing the thing we
expect that it's testing, so
we should be good to go with this.
>> Kent C Dodds: Right,
any questions about unit testing?
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Do you typically
put a bunch of expect statements
inside one test wrapper?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah,
that's a great question,
and a pretty common one.
So in times past, the recommended way to
test was only one assertion per test.
A big part of the reason for
that was because if one
of these fails,
like let's say this is true,
the error messages weren't super great.
It would just say,
this title of this test failed.
And it couldn't tell you exactly where
that failed or what exactly happened.
And so if you have 30 assertions in here,
you're like, okay, which assertion broke?
So this is why having a testing framework
that has really good error messages is so
critical is because it allows you to
do something that actually makes a fair
bit more sense without sacrificing
knowing exactly which assertion failed.
So I have no problem having
multiple assertions.
We'll have several examples in here,
especially when we get to integration
tests, where we have a whole
bunch of assertions.
We're doing a whole flow of things,
asserting as we go.
And that's much better than the
alternative, which is we put up this setup
in this before each function and
we have 30 tests that are going through.
And just have one test that
goes through that flow.
It'll be faster and more reliable.
So that's an excellent question,
I'm glad you asked it.
After you do your exercise,
I'm gonna refactor this here.
I'll add a TODO so
I don't forget, refactor.
Because there's another thing that we
could do to improve this slightly as well,
to make the error messages better and
to make it easier to maintain.
But for now,
this is the way we're gonna be doing this.
Thanks for asking that,
that was a great question.